# Implementing RAFT consensus algorithm

 
I will be implementing the Raft consensus algorithm. The main parts of Raft I will focus on are the leadership election, log replication, and safety. For the leadership election, I will have the leader send out heartbeat messages in the form of Append-entry RPC’s with no data to its followers. If follower doesn’t hear back for a period of time, it will start election using the Raft process of sending out Request-vote RPC’s. The first one that gets majority of votes will be elected leader, I will also implement mechanisms to ensure split votes do not occur. Upon election of a new primary, that primary will ensure that all followers logs are up to date with that of the primary by going to the last index where the two nodes have the same data and replicating everything after that point. For log replication I will ensure that each piece of data that is replicated has an index and term. When a client sends a write request to the primary, that primary will respond back to the client once it has heard back from a majority of the secondary servers that replication was successful.  
 
The primary will be responsible for committing changes to the local state machine after it gets a positive response back from most secondary servers that they have replicated data. For this project the commit will be to a file that will store data, index number, and term number. In case a primary or secondary goes down, when it comes back on it will go to that file and retrieve all the data that has been committed. 
